.TH LISP1.5 1 "2026" "LISP 1.5" "LISP 1.5 Interpreter"
.SH NAME
lisp1.5 \- IBM 7094 LISP 1.5 interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lisp1.5
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lisp1.5
is a Go implementation of the LISP 1.5 programming language as described
in the
.I "LISP 1.5 Programmer's Manual"
(McCarthy et al., MIT Press, 1962) and the
.I "LISP 1.5 Primer"
(Weismann, 1967).
It is compatible with the IBM 7094 LISP 1.5 emulator at
.I https://github.com/hanshuebner/llisp.
.PP
LISP 1.5 was the second major implementation of LISP, running on the
IBM 7094 at MIT.  It introduced the EVALQUOTE programming interface,
property lists, the PROG feature for imperative programming, and many
built\-in functions that remain standard in descendant dialects.
.PP
This implementation uses arbitrary\-precision integers (Go's
.BR math/big.Int )
and supports all functions described in the manual and primer.
There is no floating\-point support; FLOATP always returns NIL.
.SH EVALQUOTE INTERFACE
Programs are files of EVALQUOTE pairs.  The first line of each file is
a free\-form title printed as a header.  The body consists of alternating
function names and argument lists, terminated by
.B STOP
or
.BR FIN .
.PP
.nf
    TITLE LINE (printed as header)

    FUNCTION-NAME (ARG1 ARG2 ...)

    (LAMBDA (X) BODY) (VALUE)

    DEFINE (((NAME (LAMBDA ...))))

    STOP)))
         FIN      END OF LISP RUN
.fi
.PP
Arguments in the argument list are NOT re\-evaluated; they are passed as
literal S\-expressions.  This is the
.B evalquote
convention:
.B evalquote[fn; x]
=
.B apply[fn; x; NIL].
.PP
Lines longer than 72 characters trigger a warning; the IBM 7094 card
reader silently truncated lines beyond column 72.
.SH DATA TYPES
.TP
.B Symbolic Atoms
Sequences of letters, digits, hyphens, and underscores, uppercased on
input.  Examples:
.BR A ,
.BR FOO ,
.BR MY-VAR ,
.BR *TRUE* .
.TP
.B Numeric Atoms (Fixnums)
Signed decimal integers of arbitrary precision.  Examples:
.BR 42 ,
.BR -7 ,
.BR 0 .
Bitwise operations produce atoms printed in IBM 7094 octal Q\-notation
(e.g.
.BR 12Q3 ).
.TP
.B NIL
The empty list and the Boolean false value.  Represented as Go
.B nil
internally.  The parser converts the atom
.B NIL
to the null pointer.
.TP
.B *TRUE*
The conventional truth value returned by predicates.  The atom
.B T
also evaluates to
.B *TRUE*.
Any non\-NIL S\-expression is true.
.TP
.B Lists
Sequences of S\-expressions enclosed in parentheses.
.B (A B C)
is syntactic sugar for
.B (A\ .\ (B\ .\ (C\ .\ NIL))).
.TP
.B Dotted Pairs
A cons cell written
.B (A\ .\ B)
where A is the CAR and B is the CDR.
.SH SYNTAX
S\-expressions are either atoms or dotted\-pair lists.
.PP
.nf
    sexpr   ::= atom | "(" listbody ")"
    listbody ::= ")" | sexpr rest
    rest    ::= ")" | "." sexpr ")" | sexpr rest
    atom    ::= symbol | number
    symbol  ::= letter (letter | digit | "-" | "_" | "*")*
    number  ::= ["-"] digit+
.fi
.PP
The lexer uppercases all symbol characters.  Semicolons introduce
line comments.  Single quotes introduce QUOTE shorthand:
.B 'X
expands to
.B (QUOTE X).
.SH SPECIAL FORMS
Special forms are evaluated without applying the standard argument
evaluation rules.
.TP
.B QUOTE \fIexpr\fR
Returns
.I expr
unevaluated.
.TP
.B COND \fI(p1 e1) (p2 e2) ...\fR
Evaluates predicates in order; returns the
.I ei
for the first
.I pi
that is non\-NIL.  Signals an error if no predicate is true.
Use
.B T
as an else clause.
.TP
.B LAMBDA \fI(params) body\fR
Evaluates to itself (a function object).  Applied via
.B apply
or
.BR APPLY .
.TP
.B LABEL \fIname lambda\fR
Creates a self\-referential function by binding
.I name
to
.I lambda
inside its own body.  Used for anonymous recursion.
.TP
.B FEXPR \fI(args alist) body\fR
Like LAMBDA but receives the unevaluated argument list and the
current association list as its two parameters.
.TP
.B DEFINE \fI(((name1 body1) ...))\fR
Installs named function definitions in the global symbol table.
Returns
.BR *TRUE* .
.TP
.B MACRO \fI(((name lambda) ...))\fR
Defines macro expanders.  When
.I name
appears as the head of a form, the whole form is passed to
.I lambda
and the result is re\-evaluated.
.TP
.B PROG \fI(vars) stmt1 ...\fR
Imperative block with local mutable variables, GO labels, and RETURN.
Variables are initialized to NIL.  Returns NIL if execution falls
off the end.
.TP
.B SETQ \fIvar expr\fR
Assigns the value of
.I expr
to
.IR var .
If inside a PROG frame that declares
.IR var ,
updates the PROG\-local binding; otherwise updates the global
definition.
.TP
.B CSETQ \fIvar expr\fR
Like SETQ but always sets the global definition, ignoring PROG frames.
.TP
.B SET \fIexpr1 expr2\fR
Like SETQ but evaluates
.I expr1
to get the variable name.
.TP
.B GO \fIlabel\fR
Jumps to
.I label
within the enclosing PROG.  Works inside COND inside PROG.
.TP
.B RETURN \fIexpr\fR
Exits the enclosing PROG with the value of
.IR expr .
Works inside COND inside PROG.
.TP
.B AND \fIp1 p2 ...\fR
Short\-circuit conjunction.  Returns
.B *TRUE*
if all arguments are non\-NIL, else NIL.
.TP
.B OR \fIp1 p2 ...\fR
Short\-circuit disjunction.  Returns
.B *TRUE*
if any argument is non\-NIL, else NIL.
.TP
.B FUNCTION \fIlambda\fR
Creates a FUNARG closure: captures the current association list and
packages it with
.I lambda
as
.BR (FUNARG\ lambda\ alist) .
Use this when passing lambdas to higher\-order functions to avoid the
FUNARG problem.
.TP
.B ERROR \fIarg ...\fR
Signals an error with the given unevaluated arguments as the message.
.TP
.B SELECT \fIval (v1 e1) (v2 e2) ... default\fR
Evaluates
.I val
then finds the first
.I vi
equal to it (using EQUAL) and evaluates the corresponding
.IR ei .
If no match is found, evaluates
.IR default .
.TP
.B COMMENT \fI...\fR
Documentation form; evaluates to NIL.  Arguments are ignored.
.TP
.B PROG2 \fIe1 e2\fR
Evaluates both
.I e1
and
.I e2
and returns the value of
.IR e2 .
.SH BUILT-IN FUNCTIONS
All built\-in functions receive already\-evaluated arguments.
.SS Elementary Functions
.TP
.B CAR \fI(list)\fR
Returns the first element (CAR) of
.IR list .
Returns NIL if
.I list
is NIL or an atom.
.TP
.B CDR \fI(list)\fR
Returns the rest (CDR) of
.IR list .
Returns NIL if
.I list
is NIL or an atom.
.TP
.B CONS \fI(x y)\fR
Constructs a new cons cell with CAR
.I x
and CDR
.IR y .
.TP
.B ATOM \fI(x)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I x
is an atom (symbol, number, or NIL); else NIL.
.TP
.B EQ \fI(x y)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I x
and
.I y
are the same atom.  Do not use on lists; use EQUAL instead.
.TP
.B NULL \fI(x)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I x
is NIL.
.TP
.B NOT \fI(x)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I x
is NIL.  Identical to NULL.
.TP
.B EQUAL \fI(x y)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I x
and
.I y
are structurally equal (recursively compares all elements).
.SS CxR Family
All compositions of CAR and CDR up to four levels are available:
.BR CAAR ,
.BR CADR ,
.BR CDAR ,
.BR CDDR ,
.BR CAAAR ,
.BR CAADR ,
\&... through
.BR CDDDDR .
.SS Predicates
.TP
.B NUMBERP \fI(x)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I x
is a number (fixnum).
.TP
.B FIXP \fI(x)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I x
is a fixed\-point (integer) number.  Equivalent to NUMBERP.
.TP
.B FLOATP \fI(x)\fR
Always returns NIL.  There is no floating\-point support.
.TP
.B LISTP \fI(x)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I x
is a non\-NIL cons cell (i.e., a list).
.TP
.B ZEROP \fI(n)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I n
equals zero.
.TP
.B MINUSP \fI(n)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I n
is negative.
.TP
.B ONEP \fI(n)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I n
equals one.
.TP
.B EVENP \fI(n)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if
.I n
is even.
.SS Arithmetic
.TP
.B PLUS \fI(x y)\fR
Returns x + y.
.TP
.B DIFFERENCE \fI(x y)\fR
Returns x \- y.
.TP
.B TIMES \fI(x y)\fR
Returns x * y.
.TP
.B QUOTIENT \fI(x y)\fR
Returns the integer quotient of x divided by y (truncates toward zero).
Panics on division by zero.
.TP
.B REMAINDER \fI(x y)\fR
Returns the remainder of x divided by y.  Sign follows the dividend.
Panics on division by zero.
.TP
.B MINUS \fI(x)\fR
Returns \-x.
.TP
.B ADD1 \fI(x)\fR
Returns x + 1.
.TP
.B SUB1 \fI(x)\fR
Returns x \- 1.
.TP
.B MAX \fI(x y)\fR
Returns the larger of x and y.
.TP
.B MIN \fI(x y)\fR
Returns the smaller of x and y.
.TP
.B ABS \fI(x)\fR
Returns the absolute value of x.
.TP
.B ABSVAL \fI(x)\fR
Alias for ABS.
.TP
.B ENTIER \fI(x)\fR
Floor function.  Identity for integers (there are no floats).
.TP
.B EXPT \fI(x n)\fR
Returns x raised to the power n.  n must be non\-negative.
.TP
.B DIVIDE \fI(x y)\fR
Returns
.B (quotient remainder)
as a two\-element list.
.TP
.B GREATERP \fI(x y)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if x > y.
.TP
.B LESSP \fI(x y)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if x < y.
.SS Bitwise Operations
Results are printed in IBM 7094 octal Q\-notation.
.TP
.B LOGOR \fI(x y)\fR
Bitwise OR of x and y.
.TP
.B LOGAND \fI(x y)\fR
Bitwise AND of x and y.
.TP
.B LOGXOR \fI(x y)\fR
Bitwise XOR of x and y.
.TP
.B LEFTSHIFT \fI(x n)\fR
Shifts x left by n bits.  Negative n shifts right.
.SS List Operations
.TP
.B LIST \fI(x1 x2 ...)\fR
Constructs a list from its arguments.  Returns the argument list as\-is.
.TP
.B APPEND \fI(x y)\fR
Returns a new list formed by appending list y to a copy of list x.
Non\-destructive.
.TP
.B NCONC \fI(x y)\fR
Destructively appends y to x by modifying the last CDR of x.
Returns x (or y if x is NIL).
.TP
.B REVERSE \fI(lst)\fR
Returns a new list with elements in reverse order.
.TP
.B LENGTH \fI(lst)\fR
Returns the number of top\-level elements in lst.
.TP
.B LAST \fI(lst)\fR
Returns the last cons cell of lst (a one\-element list containing
the last element).
.TP
.B MEMBER \fI(x lst)\fR
Returns
.B *TRUE*
if x is an element of lst (uses EQUAL for comparison).
.TP
.B EFFACE \fI(x lst)\fR
Returns lst with the
.I first
occurrence of x removed.  Non\-destructive.
.TP
.B DELETE \fI(x lst)\fR
Returns lst with
.I all
occurrences of x removed.  Non\-destructive.
.TP
.B INTERSECTION \fI(x y)\fR
Returns a list of elements common to both lists x and y.
.TP
.B UNION \fI(x y)\fR
Returns a list of elements in x or y with no duplicates.
.TP
.B SUBST \fI(x y z)\fR
Returns z with every occurrence of y replaced by x (uses EQUAL).
.TP
.B SUBLIS \fI(alist z)\fR
Returns z with atoms substituted according to the association list alist.
.TP
.B COPY \fI(x)\fR
Returns a deep copy of S\-expression x.
.TP
.B PAIR \fI(x y)\fR
Zips two lists x and y into an association list of dotted pairs.
.TP
.B PAIRLIS \fI(x y a)\fR
Like PAIR but prepends the new pairs to the existing list a.
.TP
.B ASSOC \fI(x alist)\fR
Searches alist for the first pair whose CAR is EQ to x.
Returns the pair (key . value) or NIL if not found.
.TP
.B SASSOC \fI(x alist u)\fR
Like ASSOC but calls function u (with no arguments) if x is not found.
.SS Destructive Modification
.TP
.B RPLACA \fI(cell val)\fR
Replaces the CAR of cons cell
.I cell
with
.IR val .
Returns
.I cell
(now modified).
.TP
.B RPLACD \fI(cell val)\fR
Replaces the CDR of cons cell
.I cell
with
.IR val .
Returns
.I cell
(now modified).
.SS Higher\-Order Functions
.TP
.B MAPCAR \fI(fn lst)\fR
Applies
.I fn
to each element of
.I lst
and returns a list of results.
Note: takes function first, list second.
.TP
.B MAPLIST \fI(fn lst)\fR
Applies
.I fn
to each successive CDR (suffix) of
.I lst
and returns a list of results.
.TP
.B MAP \fI(fn lst)\fR
Like MAPLIST but for side effects; returns the terminal atom of lst.
.TP
.B MAPC \fI(fn lst)\fR
Like MAPCAR but for side effects; returns NIL.
.TP
.B SEARCH \fI(lst pred found notfound)\fR
Searches
.I lst
for the first element satisfying predicate
.IR pred .
If found, applies
.I found
to that element.
If not found, calls
.I notfound
with no arguments.
.TP
.B APPLY \fI(fn args alist)\fR
Applies
.I fn
to the list
.IR args ,
using
.I alist
as the association list.
.TP
.B EVAL \fI(expr alist)\fR
Evaluates
.I expr
in association list
.IR alist .
.SS Property Lists
.TP
.B DEFLIST \fI(pairs indicator)\fR
Sets the property named
.I indicator
for multiple atoms at once.
.I pairs
is a list of
.B (atom value)
pairs.  Returns
.BR *TRUE* .
.TP
.B GET \fI(atom indicator)\fR
Retrieves the value of property
.I indicator
on
.IR atom .
Returns NIL if not set.
Special case: indicator
.B PNAME
returns the atom's print name as a list of single\-character atoms.
.TP
.B PUTPROP \fI(atom value indicator)\fR
Sets property
.I indicator
on
.I atom
to
.IR value .
Returns
.IR value .
(Extension; use DEFLIST for IBM 7094 emulator compatibility.)
.TP
.B REMPROP \fI(atom indicator)\fR
Removes property
.I indicator
from
.IR atom .
Returns the old value, or NIL if not set.
.TP
.B PROP \fI(atom indicator notfound)\fR
Like GET but calls function
.I notfound
(with no arguments) if the property is missing.
.TP
.B ATTRIB \fI(atom pair)\fR
Adds a property to atom's property list via a dotted pair
.B (indicator . value).
Returns the pair.
.SS Symbol Operations
.TP
.B GENSYM \fI()\fR
Generates a unique symbol of the form
.BR G00001 ,
.BR G00002 ,
etc.  Each call produces a fresh symbol.
.TP
.B EXPLODE \fI(x)\fR
Converts atom
.I x
to a list of single\-character atoms.
.TP
.B INTERN \fI(chars)\fR
Converts a list of single\-character atoms to a symbol atom.
Aliases:
.BR IMPLODE ,
.BR COMPRESS .
.TP
.B OBLIST \fI()\fR
Returns a list of all atoms that have global definitions.
.TP
.B REMOB \fI(atom)\fR
Removes
.I atom
from the object list (deletes its global definition).
Returns
.IR atom .
.SS Input/Output
.TP
.B PRINT \fI(x)\fR
Prints
.I x
and returns
.IR x .
.TP
.B TERPRI \fI()\fR
Prints a newline and returns NIL.
.SS Error Handling
.TP
.B ERROR \fIarg ...\fR
Signals an error.  Arguments are collected as the error message.
.TP
.B ERRORSET \fI(expr flag)\fR
Evaluates
.I expr
in a protected context.
Returns
.B (result)
on success or NIL on error.
The
.I flag
argument is accepted for compatibility but has no effect.
.TP
.B RECLAIM \fI(flag)\fR
No\-op.  Included for compatibility with the IBM 7094 emulator,
which used this to trigger garbage collection.
.TP
.B TEMPUS-FUGIT \fI()\fR
Returns NIL.  In the IBM 7094 emulator this printed timing information.
.SH ARITHMETIC
All arithmetic operates on arbitrary\-precision integers (fixnums).
There is no floating\-point support.
.PP
Division functions (QUOTIENT, REMAINDER, DIVIDE) truncate toward zero
and panic on division by zero.
.PP
Bitwise operations (LOGOR, LOGAND, LOGXOR, LEFTSHIFT) operate on the
integer values and return results printed in IBM 7094 octal Q\-notation.
The format is
.I mantissa
followed by
.B Q
followed by an optional exponent (the number of trailing octal zeros
stripped).
.SH CONTROL FLOW
.SS COND
.B (COND (p1 e1) (p2 e2) ... (pn en))
.PP
Evaluates predicates left to right.  Returns ei for the first true pi.
Signals an error if all predicates are NIL.
.SS PROG
.nf
    (PROG (var1 var2 ...)
      stmt1
      stmt2
      LABEL
      (COND ...)
      ...)
.fi
.PP
Variables are declared in the var list and initialized to NIL.
Statements are evaluated for side effects.  Atom positions serve as
GO labels.  RETURN exits with a value; GO jumps to a label.
PROG returns NIL if execution falls off the end.
.PP
SETQ inside a PROG updates the innermost PROG frame that declares the
variable, or creates a new entry in the innermost frame if not declared.
CSETQ always sets the global definition.
.SS SELECT
.B (SELECT val (v1 e1) ... default)
.PP
Evaluates val, then evaluates each vi (using EQUAL) until a match is
found.  Returns the corresponding ei.  If no match, evaluates and
returns default.
.SH PROPERTY LISTS
Every atom can have a property list of indicator\-value pairs stored
in a separate hash map.
.PP
The standard way to set properties is DEFLIST; PUTPROP is an extension.
In the IBM 7094 emulator, property lists are part of the atom's memory
layout; in this implementation they are stored in a Go map.
.PP
The special indicator
.B PNAME
is not stored in the map; GET with PNAME computes and returns the
atom's print name as a list of single\-character atoms.
.SH HIGHER ORDER FUNCTIONS
Functions are first\-class values.  Lambda expressions evaluate to
themselves and can be stored, passed, and returned.
.PP
The
.B FUNARG
problem arises when a lambda that refers to local variables is passed
to a higher\-order function and called from a different scope.  Use
.B (FUNCTION lambda)
to capture the current association list and create a FUNARG closure.
.PP
MAPCAR, MAPLIST, MAP, and MAPC all take the
.I function
as the first argument and the
.I list
as the second argument (matching the IBM 7094 emulator).
.SH MACRO SYSTEM
.nf
    MACRO (((name (LAMBDA (form) expansion-expr))))
.fi
.PP
When
.I name
appears as the head of a form during evaluation, the entire form
(unevaluated) is passed to the macro lambda.  The result is then
re\-evaluated in the original context.
.PP
The macro lambda receives one argument: the whole form including the
macro name as its CAR.
.SH DESTRUCTIVE OPERATIONS
RPLACA, RPLACD, and NCONC modify existing cons cells.
.PP
.B Warning:
destructive operations can corrupt shared structure.  If two variables
point to the same cons cell and you modify it via one variable, the
change is visible through the other.  NCONC on a constant list (e.g.,
a quoted list) is undefined behavior.
.PP
APPEND creates a fresh copy of its first argument; NCONC does not.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
.TP
.B Line 1
Title line, printed as a header.  Free\-form text.
.TP
.B Body
Alternating S\-expressions: function name then argument list.
Each function/args pair is an EVALQUOTE call.
.TP
.B Comments
Lines beginning with
.B ;
(semicolon) are comment lines in the body.
.TP
.B Terminator
.B STOP
or
.B FIN
ends the session.  A trailing
.B )))
is silently skipped.
.TP
.B Column limit
Lines beyond 72 characters trigger a warning to stderr.
.SH ERRORS
Errors are signaled as Go panics and caught by the EVALQUOTE loop.
The error message is printed as
.BR "ERROR: message" .
Execution continues with the next EVALQUOTE pair.
.PP
To trap errors programmatically use ERRORSET, which returns
.B (result)
on success or
.B NIL
on error.
.PP
Common error conditions:
.IP \(bu 4
Unbound variable
.IP \(bu 4
Undefined function
.IP \(bu 4
Wrong type argument (e.g., taking CAR of a number)
.IP \(bu 4
Division by zero
.IP \(bu 4
COND with no true clause
.IP \(bu 4
PROG: label not found
.SH IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
.IP \(bu 4
All integers are Go
.BR math/big.Int
(arbitrary precision).
.IP \(bu 4
There is no floating\-point; FLOATP always returns NIL, FIXP and
NUMBERP test for the presence of a
.BR big.Int
value.
.IP \(bu 4
NIL is represented as Go
.B nil
(the null pointer), not a named atom.
.IP \(bu 4
.B *TRUE*
is a single global
.BR *Expr
pointer.  T evaluates to the same pointer.
.IP \(bu 4
Property lists use a Go
.B map[string]map[string]*Expr
separate from the atom representation.  The IBM 7094 stored property
lists in the atoms' word fields.
.IP \(bu 4
PUTPROP is an extension (not in the IBM 7094 emulator); use DEFLIST
for maximum compatibility.
.IP \(bu 4
PROG frames are stored in a global stack (not the a\-list) so that
SETQ can efficiently find and update variables across nested eval calls.
.IP \(bu 4
GENSYM counter is global and persists across all evaluations in a run.
.IP \(bu 4
The octal Q\-notation format for bitwise results strips trailing octal
zeros: the value is written as
.I MQE
where M is the mantissa in octal and E is the count of stripped zeros
(omitted if zero).
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.SS Present in this interpreter but not the IBM 7094 emulator
.TP
.B PUTPROP
Use DEFLIST instead.
.TP
.B EVENP, ONEP, LISTP
Additional predicates from the Weismann primer.
.TP
.B ABSVAL
Alias for ABS.
.TP
.B ENTIER
Floor; identity for integers.
.TP
.B INTERSECTION, UNION
Set operations.
.TP
.B SELECT
Case/switch form.
.TP
.B MACRO
Macro expanders.
.SS Present in the IBM 7094 emulator but noted differences
.TP
.B MAPCAR argument order
This interpreter uses (MAPCAR fn list) matching the emulator;
some later LISP dialects reversed the order.
.TP
.B FLOATP
Always returns NIL.  The IBM 7094 emulator distinguished fixnums
and floatnums.
.TP
.B Property lists
Implemented as Go hash maps rather than inline atom memory fields.
.TP
.B RECLAIM
No\-op; Go manages memory automatically.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Factorial
.nf
       FACTORIAL EXAMPLE

DEFINE (((FACTORIAL (LAMBDA (N)
  (COND ((ZEROP N) 1)
        (T (TIMES N (FACTORIAL (SUB1 N)))))))))

FACTORIAL (6)

STOP)))
       FIN      END OF LISP RUN
.fi
.SS Iterative Fibonacci (PROG)
.nf
DEFINE (((IFIB (LAMBDA (N)
  (PROG (A B I)
    (SETQ A 0)
    (SETQ B 1)
    (SETQ I 0)
  LOOP
    (COND ((EQUAL I N) (RETURN A)))
    (PROG (TEMP)
      (SETQ TEMP (PLUS A B))
      (SETQ A B)
      (SETQ B TEMP))
    (SETQ I (ADD1 I))
    (GO LOOP)))))

IFIB (10)
.fi
.SS Property Lists
.nf
DEFLIST (((CAT ANIMAL) (DOG ANIMAL) (OAK PLANT)) TYPE)

GET (CAT TYPE)

PUTPROP (CAT 4 LEGS)

GET (CAT LEGS)
.fi
.SS MAPCAR with FUNCTION
.nf
DEFINE (((ADDER (LAMBDA (N)
           (FUNCTION (LAMBDA (X) (PLUS X N)))))))

DEFINE (((ADD3 (LAMBDA (X) (PLUS X 3)))))

MAPCAR (ADD3 (1 2 3 4 5))
.fi
.SS ERRORSET
.nf
ERRORSET ((PLUS 1 2) NIL)

ERRORSET ((CAR FOO) NIL)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.I "LISP 1.5 Programmer's Manual"
(McCarthy, Abrahams, Edwards, Hart, Levin; MIT Press, 1962)
.PP
.I "A LISP 1.5 Primer"
(Clark Weismann; Wadsworth, 1967)
.PP
IBM 7094 LISP 1.5 Emulator:
.I https://github.com/hanshuebner/llisp
